feat(web-basics): add web basics post (#46)
marekvospel/blog: src/routes/posts/web-basics/+page.md

---
title: What is HTTP? How does a basic webpage work?
description: Learn how a basic website can be created and how is it possible for a website to load on your computer.
author:
  name: Marek Vospěl
  link: https://github.com/marekvospel
tags:
- web
- development
- software
- technology

created: 2023-01-18 10:30:00
updated: 2023-01-18 10:30:00
---
# What is HTTP? How does a basic webpage work?
Thanks to the internet, opening and using a website is really easy, you just open your web browser and with a search
tool like DuckDuckGo, StartPage or even a paid one like Kagi search you can even search the millions of websites there

> are out there.  

Author: ```suggestion
are out there.
```

But have you ever wondered how these websites are made?

## How does a web browser show a website?
The first part of the magic of websites is the web browser, the application on your computer, that can open the

> webpages. But how does it know what text to show and where, obviously all websites cannot be stored inside the web
> browser in my computer?

Author: ```suggestion
webpages. But how does it know what text to show? (Obviously the web browser on your computer can't know all the
websites out there)
```

> That's where HTML (Hypertext markup language) comes into play. Opposed to other computer languages, HTML behaves

Author: ```suggestion
That's where HTML (Hypertext markup language) comes into play. Compared to other computer languages, HTML behaves
```

differently, it doesn't get executed, but it gets rendered by a web browser. Its syntax is really easy, all text, that

> is inside the HTML gets shown on the website, unless it's a tag, which marks the content inside has different formatting.  

Author: ```suggestion
is inside the file gets shown on the website, unless it's a tag, which marks the content inside has different formatting.  
```

An example of a tag is `strong`, which means the text inside will be **bold**.
```html
An example of a tag is strong, which means the text inside will be <strong>bold</strong>
```
It's important not to forget the tags need to be closed, that can be done by adding a closing tag - the same tag as

> the opening tag, but the name starting with /.

Author: ```suggestion
the opening one, but the name starting with /.
```
